README.md, before:

# Cool-Kit: Coolify CLI Toolkit

🚀 **The complete command-line toolkit for Coolify deployment and management.**

Cool-Kit provides a comprehensive suite of commands for deploying, managing, and operating Coolify instances across local development and cloud platforms.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.25%2B-blue.svg)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-linux%20%7C%20macos%20%7C%20windows-lightgrey.svg)

---

## ✨ Features

- 🏠 **Local Development** - Complete local Coolify setup with Docker Compose
- ☁️ **Cloud Deployment** - Full Azure, AWS, GCP, DigitalOcean, and Hetzner provisioning features
- 🔄 **Smart Updates** - Automatic updates with backup and rollback
- 💾 **Backup Management** - Create, list, and restore backups
- 📊 **Status Monitoring** - Comprehensive health checks and resource monitoring
- 🔐 **Secure by Default** - Cryptographically secure credential generation
- 🌍 **Cross-Platform** - Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows
- ⚡ **Type-Safe** - Built with Go for reliability and performance

---

## 📋 Requirements

### System Requirements

- **OS**: Linux, macOS, or Windows
- **RAM**: 2GB minimum (4GB recommended for local, 8GB for Azure)
- **Disk**: 20GB available space
- **Go**: 1.25+ (for building from source)

### Prerequisites

#### For Local Development

- Docker 20.10+
- Docker Compose v2+

#### For Azure Deployment

- Authenticated Azure session (via `az login` or Service Principal)
- Azure account with subscription
- SSH key pair (`~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

#### Download Pre-built Binary (Recommended)

```bash
# Download latest release (coming soon)
curl -fsSL https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit/releases/latest/download/cool-kit-linux-amd64 -o cool-kit
chmod +x cool-kit
sudo mv cool-kit /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Build from Source

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit.git
cd cool-kit

# Build with Go
go build -o cool-kit

# Install (optional)
sudo mv cool-kit /usr/local/bin/
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Show all available commands
cool-kit --help

# Setup local Coolify development instance
cool-kit local setup

# Deploy Coolify to Azure
cool-kit azure deploy

# Check status of Azure instance
cool-kit azure status
```

---

## 🏠 Local Development Commands

Manage Coolify instances on your local machine using Docker Compose.

### `cool-kit local setup`

Interactive setup for local Coolify development:

- Collects configuration (email, password, ports)
- Generates secure credentials automatically
- Creates required directory structure
- Generates Docker Compose configuration
- Starts all services with health checks
- Runs database migrations

```bash
cool-kit local setup
```

### `cool-kit local start`

Start local Coolify services:

```bash
cool-kit local start
```

### `cool-kit local stop`

Stop services (preserves all data):

```bash
cool-kit local stop
```

### `cool-kit local logs`

View service logs:

```bash
# Follow logs in real-time
cool-kit local logs -f

# Show last 100 lines
cool-kit local logs --tail 100

# Logs for specific service
cool-kit local logs coolify
```

### `cool-kit local update`

Update to latest Coolify version:

- Pulls latest Docker images
- Recreates containers
- Runs database migrations
- Verifies health

```bash
cool-kit local update
```

### `cool-kit local reset`

Reset to clean state (⚠️ **deletes all data**):

```bash
# Interactive confirmation
cool-kit local reset

# Skip confirmation
cool-kit local reset --force
```

---

## ☁️ Azure Deployment Commands

Deploy and manage Coolify instances on Microsoft Azure.

### `cool-kit azure deploy`

Complete Azure deployment workflow:

1. **Load Configuration** - Interactive or from file
2. **Provision Infrastructure**:
   - Resource group
   - Virtual network and subnet
   - Network security group (ports 22, 80, 443, 8000)
   - Public IP address
   - Network interface
   - Virtual machine (Ubuntu 22.04)
3. **Install Dependencies**:
   - System updates
   - Docker and Docker Compose
4. **Deploy Coolify**:
   - Container deployment
   - Database initialization
   - Admin user creation
5. **Verify Health** - All services running

```bash
cool-kit azure deploy
```

**What you'll be asked:**

- Resource Group name (default: `coolify-rg`)
- VM name (default: `coolify-vm`)
- Admin email
- Admin password

**What you get:**

- Fully provisioned Azure VM
- Coolify running on `http://<public-ip>:8000`
- SSH access via `ssh azureuser@<public-ip>`

### `cool-kit azure update`

Update existing Azure instance with automatic rollback:

- Creates pre-update backup
- Pulls latest images
- Recreates containers
- Runs migrations
- Verifies health
- Automatic rollback on failure (optional)

```bash
cool-kit azure update
```

### `cool-kit azure status`

Comprehensive health check:

- ✅ VM status (power state, provisioning)
- ✅ SSH connectivity
- ✅ Service health (Coolify, DB, Redis, Realtime)
- ✅ Resource usage (CPU, memory, disk)
- ✅ Coolify version

```bash
cool-kit azure status
```

### `cool-kit azure backup`

Create full backup:

- PostgreSQL database dump
- Redis data
- Docker volumes (applications, services, etc.)
- Configuration files
- Metadata with timestamp

```bash
cool-kit azure backup
```

### `cool-kit azure rollback`

Restore from backup:

- Lists available backups
- Interactive selection
- Complete restoration
- Health verification

```bash
cool-kit azure rollback
```

### `cool-kit azure config`

Manage Azure configuration:

1. View current configuration
2. Edit configuration file
3. Validate configuration
4. Reset to defaults
5. Show config file path

```bash
cool-kit azure config
```

**Configuration file**: `~/.coolify/azure-config.json`

### `cool-kit azure ssh`

Interactive SSH access to Azure VM:

```bash
cool-kit azure ssh
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Azure Configuration

Default configuration is created at `~/.coolify/azure-config.json`:

```json
{
  "infrastructure": {
    "location": "swedencentral",
    "vm_size": "Standard_B2s",
    "admin_username": "azureuser",
    "ssh_public_key_path": "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub",
    "os_image": "Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-server-jammy:22_04-lts-gen2:latest",
    "os_disk_size_gb": 30
  },
  "networking": {
    "app_port": 80,
    "ssh_port": 22,
    "websocket_port": 6001,
    "vnet_address_prefix": "10.0.0.0/16",
    "subnet_address_prefix": "10.0.1.0/24"
  },
  "coolify": {
    "default_admin_email": "admin@coolify.local",
    "app_url_template": "http://{public_ip}",
    "pusher_host_template": "{public_ip}",
    "pusher_port": 6001
  }
}
```

Customize before deployment:

```bash
# Edit configuration
cool-kit azure config
# Choose option 2 to edit, then option 3 to validate
```

### Local Configuration

Local setup is interactive - you'll be prompted for:

- Admin email
- Admin password (or auto-generated)
- App port (default: 8000)
- Debug mode (default: false)

Configuration is saved to `~/.coolify/local-config.json`

---

## 🔐 Security

### Credentials

- All passwords generated with `crypto/rand` (cryptographically secure)
- Minimum 32 characters for sensitive credentials
- SSH key-based authentication for Azure
- No credentials stored in plaintext (except config files you create)

### Azure Security

- Network Security Group with minimal required ports
- SSH key authentication (no password login)
- Automatic system updates on first boot
- Secure credential generation for all services

### Best Practices

- ✅ Always use strong passwords
- ✅ Keep SSH keys secure
- ✅ Regularly update Coolify (`cool-kit azure update`)
- ✅ Regular backups (`cool-kit azure backup`)
- ✅ Monitor with `cool-kit azure status`

---

## 📊 Architecture

### Local Development

```
Docker Compose Stack:
├── coolify (app)
├── coolify-db (PostgreSQL 15)
├── coolify-redis (Redis 7)
└── coolify-soketi (WebSocket)
```

### Azure Deployment

```
Azure Resources:
├── Resource Group
├── Virtual Network (10.0.0.0/16)
├── Subnet (10.0.1.0/24)
├── Network Security Group
│   ├── SSH (22)
│   ├── HTTP (80)
│   ├── HTTPS (443)
│   └── Coolify (8000)
├── Public IP Address
├── Network Interface
└── Virtual Machine (Ubuntu 22.04)
    └── Docker Stack:
        ├── coolify
        ├── coolify-db
        ├── coolify-redis
        └── coolify-realtime
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Local Development

**Docker not running:**

```bash
# Start Docker Desktop (macOS/Windows)
# Or start Docker daemon (Linux):
sudo systemctl start docker
```

**Port 8000 already in use:**

```bash
# Find what's using it
lsof -i :8000

# Or choose different port during setup
```

**Services not healthy:**

```bash
# Check logs
cool-kit local logs -f

# Reset and try again
cool-kit local reset --force
cool-kit local setup
```

### Azure Deployment

**Not logged into Azure:**

```bash
`az login` works best for local development. For CI/CD, use Service Principals.
```

**SSH connection fails:**

```bash
# Verify SSH key exists
ls -la ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

# Generate if missing
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
```

**Deployment fails:**

- Check Azure CLI authentication: `az account show`
- Verify subscription has quota
- Check network connectivity
- Review error messages

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- [x] AWS deployment support
- [x] Google Cloud deployment support
- [x] DigitalOcean deployment support
- [x] Hetzner deployment support
- [ ] Kubernetes deployment support
- [ ] Monitoring stack integration
- [ ] Service template deployment
- [ ] Multi-region deployment
- [ ] Automated SSL certificate management

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [Migration Complete Summary](AZURE_IMPLEMENTATION_COMPLETE.md) - Full implementation details
- [Script Migration Analysis](SCRIPT_MIGRATION_ANALYSIS.md) - Original bash script analysis
- [Migration Progress](MIGRATION_PROGRESS.md) - Detailed progress tracking

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit.git
cd cool-kit

# Install dependencies
go mod tidy

# Build
go build

# Run tests
go test ./...

# Format code
go fmt ./...
```

### Code Structure

```
cool-kit/
├── cmd/                    # Command definitions
│   ├── azure.go           # Azure commands
│   ├── local.go           # Local commands
│   └── root.go            # Root command
├── internal/
│   ├── api/               # Coolify API client
│   ├── azure/             # Azure deployment logic
│   ├── azureconfig/       # Azure configuration
│   ├── local/             # Local deployment logic
│   ├── smart/             # Smart service detection
│   └── ui/                # UI components
└── main.go                # Entry point
```

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🔗 Links

- **Coolify Main Repository**: https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify
- **Documentation**: https://coolify.io/docs
- **Community**: https://coolify.io/discord
- **Issues**: https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify/issues

---

## ❤️ Support Coolify

Coolify is an open-source project. If you use **Hetzner Cloud** for your deployments, please consider using our referral link. It helps support the project at no extra cost to you!

- **Sign up for Hetzner**: [https://coolify.io/hetzner](https://coolify.io/hetzner)
- **Direct Link**: [Hetzner Console](https://console.hetzner.com/refer?pk_campaign=referral-invite&pk_medium=referral-program&pk_source=reflink&pk_content=VBVO47VycYLt)

---

## 🎉 Acknowledgments

Cool-Kit is the result of migrating **3,397 lines of bash scripts** to **~3,800 lines of type-safe Go code**, providing:

- ✅ Cross-platform compatibility
- ✅ Better error handling
- ✅ Interactive user experience
- ✅ Complete Azure integration
- ✅ Production-ready deployment workflows

**Migration completed**: 2025-12-27 (100% complete)

---

<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by the Coolify Community
</p>

Commit message:

Update Hetzner referral messaging and README
Clarified that Cool-Kit is independent from Coolify and updated referral link messaging to support the official Coolify project. Adjusted README and Hetzner provider code to reference 'their' referral link and improved support language.

README.md, after:

# Cool-Kit: Coolify CLI Toolkit

🚀 **The complete command-line toolkit for Coolify deployment and management.**

Cool-Kit provides a comprehensive suite of commands for deploying, managing, and operating Coolify instances across local development and cloud platforms.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.25%2B-blue.svg)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-linux%20%7C%20macos%20%7C%20windows-lightgrey.svg)

---

## ✨ Features

- 🏠 **Local Development** - Complete local Coolify setup with Docker Compose
- ☁️ **Cloud Deployment** - Full Azure, AWS, GCP, DigitalOcean, and Hetzner provisioning features
- 🔄 **Smart Updates** - Automatic updates with backup and rollback
- 💾 **Backup Management** - Create, list, and restore backups
- 📊 **Status Monitoring** - Comprehensive health checks and resource monitoring
- 🔐 **Secure by Default** - Cryptographically secure credential generation
- 🌍 **Cross-Platform** - Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows
- ⚡ **Type-Safe** - Built with Go for reliability and performance

---

## 📋 Requirements

### System Requirements

- **OS**: Linux, macOS, or Windows
- **RAM**: 2GB minimum (4GB recommended for local, 8GB for Azure)
- **Disk**: 20GB available space
- **Go**: 1.25+ (for building from source)

### Prerequisites

#### For Local Development

- Docker 20.10+
- Docker Compose v2+

#### For Azure Deployment

- Authenticated Azure session (via `az login` or Service Principal)
- Azure account with subscription
- SSH key pair (`~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

#### Download Pre-built Binary (Recommended)

```bash
# Download latest release (coming soon)
curl -fsSL https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit/releases/latest/download/cool-kit-linux-amd64 -o cool-kit
chmod +x cool-kit
sudo mv cool-kit /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Build from Source

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit.git
cd cool-kit

# Build with Go
go build -o cool-kit

# Install (optional)
sudo mv cool-kit /usr/local/bin/
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Show all available commands
cool-kit --help

# Setup local Coolify development instance
cool-kit local setup

# Deploy Coolify to Azure
cool-kit azure deploy

# Check status of Azure instance
cool-kit azure status
```

---

## 🏠 Local Development Commands

Manage Coolify instances on your local machine using Docker Compose.

### `cool-kit local setup`

Interactive setup for local Coolify development:

- Collects configuration (email, password, ports)
- Generates secure credentials automatically
- Creates required directory structure
- Generates Docker Compose configuration
- Starts all services with health checks
- Runs database migrations

```bash
cool-kit local setup
```

### `cool-kit local start`

Start local Coolify services:

```bash
cool-kit local start
```

### `cool-kit local stop`

Stop services (preserves all data):

```bash
cool-kit local stop
```

### `cool-kit local logs`

View service logs:

```bash
# Follow logs in real-time
cool-kit local logs -f

# Show last 100 lines
cool-kit local logs --tail 100

# Logs for specific service
cool-kit local logs coolify
```

### `cool-kit local update`

Update to latest Coolify version:

- Pulls latest Docker images
- Recreates containers
- Runs database migrations
- Verifies health

```bash
cool-kit local update
```

### `cool-kit local reset`

Reset to clean state (⚠️ **deletes all data**):

```bash
# Interactive confirmation
cool-kit local reset

# Skip confirmation
cool-kit local reset --force
```

---

## ☁️ Azure Deployment Commands

Deploy and manage Coolify instances on Microsoft Azure.

### `cool-kit azure deploy`

Complete Azure deployment workflow:

1. **Load Configuration** - Interactive or from file
2. **Provision Infrastructure**:
   - Resource group
   - Virtual network and subnet
   - Network security group (ports 22, 80, 443, 8000)
   - Public IP address
   - Network interface
   - Virtual machine (Ubuntu 22.04)
3. **Install Dependencies**:
   - System updates
   - Docker and Docker Compose
4. **Deploy Coolify**:
   - Container deployment
   - Database initialization
   - Admin user creation
5. **Verify Health** - All services running

```bash
cool-kit azure deploy
```

**What you'll be asked:**

- Resource Group name (default: `coolify-rg`)
- VM name (default: `coolify-vm`)
- Admin email
- Admin password

**What you get:**

- Fully provisioned Azure VM
- Coolify running on `http://<public-ip>:8000`
- SSH access via `ssh azureuser@<public-ip>`

### `cool-kit azure update`

Update existing Azure instance with automatic rollback:

- Creates pre-update backup
- Pulls latest images
- Recreates containers
- Runs migrations
- Verifies health
- Automatic rollback on failure (optional)

```bash
cool-kit azure update
```

### `cool-kit azure status`

Comprehensive health check:

- ✅ VM status (power state, provisioning)
- ✅ SSH connectivity
- ✅ Service health (Coolify, DB, Redis, Realtime)
- ✅ Resource usage (CPU, memory, disk)
- ✅ Coolify version

```bash
cool-kit azure status
```

### `cool-kit azure backup`

Create full backup:

- PostgreSQL database dump
- Redis data
- Docker volumes (applications, services, etc.)
- Configuration files
- Metadata with timestamp

```bash
cool-kit azure backup
```

### `cool-kit azure rollback`

Restore from backup:

- Lists available backups
- Interactive selection
- Complete restoration
- Health verification

```bash
cool-kit azure rollback
```

### `cool-kit azure config`

Manage Azure configuration:

1. View current configuration
2. Edit configuration file
3. Validate configuration
4. Reset to defaults
5. Show config file path

```bash
cool-kit azure config
```

**Configuration file**: `~/.coolify/azure-config.json`

### `cool-kit azure ssh`

Interactive SSH access to Azure VM:

```bash
cool-kit azure ssh
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Azure Configuration

Default configuration is created at `~/.coolify/azure-config.json`:

```json
{
  "infrastructure": {
    "location": "swedencentral",
    "vm_size": "Standard_B2s",
    "admin_username": "azureuser",
    "ssh_public_key_path": "~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub",
    "os_image": "Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-server-jammy:22_04-lts-gen2:latest",
    "os_disk_size_gb": 30
  },
  "networking": {
    "app_port": 80,
    "ssh_port": 22,
    "websocket_port": 6001,
    "vnet_address_prefix": "10.0.0.0/16",
    "subnet_address_prefix": "10.0.1.0/24"
  },
  "coolify": {
    "default_admin_email": "admin@coolify.local",
    "app_url_template": "http://{public_ip}",
    "pusher_host_template": "{public_ip}",
    "pusher_port": 6001
  }
}
```

Customize before deployment:

```bash
# Edit configuration
cool-kit azure config
# Choose option 2 to edit, then option 3 to validate
```

### Local Configuration

Local setup is interactive - you'll be prompted for:

- Admin email
- Admin password (or auto-generated)
- App port (default: 8000)
- Debug mode (default: false)

Configuration is saved to `~/.coolify/local-config.json`

---

## 🔐 Security

### Credentials

- All passwords generated with `crypto/rand` (cryptographically secure)
- Minimum 32 characters for sensitive credentials
- SSH key-based authentication for Azure
- No credentials stored in plaintext (except config files you create)

### Azure Security

- Network Security Group with minimal required ports
- SSH key authentication (no password login)
- Automatic system updates on first boot
- Secure credential generation for all services

### Best Practices

- ✅ Always use strong passwords
- ✅ Keep SSH keys secure
- ✅ Regularly update Coolify (`cool-kit azure update`)
- ✅ Regular backups (`cool-kit azure backup`)
- ✅ Monitor with `cool-kit azure status`

---

## 📊 Architecture

### Local Development

```
Docker Compose Stack:
├── coolify (app)
├── coolify-db (PostgreSQL 15)
├── coolify-redis (Redis 7)
└── coolify-soketi (WebSocket)
```

### Azure Deployment

```
Azure Resources:
├── Resource Group
├── Virtual Network (10.0.0.0/16)
├── Subnet (10.0.1.0/24)
├── Network Security Group
│   ├── SSH (22)
│   ├── HTTP (80)
│   ├── HTTPS (443)
│   └── Coolify (8000)
├── Public IP Address
├── Network Interface
└── Virtual Machine (Ubuntu 22.04)
    └── Docker Stack:
        ├── coolify
        ├── coolify-db
        ├── coolify-redis
        └── coolify-realtime
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Local Development

**Docker not running:**

```bash
# Start Docker Desktop (macOS/Windows)
# Or start Docker daemon (Linux):
sudo systemctl start docker
```

**Port 8000 already in use:**

```bash
# Find what's using it
lsof -i :8000

# Or choose different port during setup
```

**Services not healthy:**

```bash
# Check logs
cool-kit local logs -f

# Reset and try again
cool-kit local reset --force
cool-kit local setup
```

### Azure Deployment

**Not logged into Azure:**

```bash
`az login` works best for local development. For CI/CD, use Service Principals.
```

**SSH connection fails:**

```bash
# Verify SSH key exists
ls -la ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

# Generate if missing
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
```

**Deployment fails:**

- Check Azure CLI authentication: `az account show`
- Verify subscription has quota
- Check network connectivity
- Review error messages

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- [x] AWS deployment support
- [x] Google Cloud deployment support
- [x] DigitalOcean deployment support
- [x] Hetzner deployment support
- [ ] Kubernetes deployment support
- [ ] Monitoring stack integration
- [ ] Service template deployment
- [ ] Multi-region deployment
- [ ] Automated SSL certificate management

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [Migration Complete Summary](AZURE_IMPLEMENTATION_COMPLETE.md) - Full implementation details
- [Script Migration Analysis](SCRIPT_MIGRATION_ANALYSIS.md) - Original bash script analysis
- [Migration Progress](MIGRATION_PROGRESS.md) - Detailed progress tracking

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/entro314-labs/cool-kit.git
cd cool-kit

# Install dependencies
go mod tidy

# Build
go build

# Run tests
go test ./...

# Format code
go fmt ./...
```

### Code Structure

```
cool-kit/
├── cmd/                    # Command definitions
│   ├── azure.go           # Azure commands
│   ├── local.go           # Local commands
│   └── root.go            # Root command
├── internal/
│   ├── api/               # Coolify API client
│   ├── azure/             # Azure deployment logic
│   ├── azureconfig/       # Azure configuration
│   ├── local/             # Local deployment logic
│   ├── smart/             # Smart service detection
│   └── ui/                # UI components
└── main.go                # Entry point
```

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🔗 Links

- **Coolify Main Repository**: https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify
- **Documentation**: https://coolify.io/docs
- **Community**: https://coolify.io/discord
- **Issues**: https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify/issues

---

## ❤️ Support Coolify

Cool-Kit is an independent, community-driven toolkit and is **not affiliated** with the official Coolify project. We love Coolify and want to see it thrive!

If you use **Hetzner Cloud** for your deployments, please consider using **their** referral link. It helps support the official Coolify project at no extra cost to you!

- **Sign up for Hetzner**: [https://coolify.io/hetzner](https://coolify.io/hetzner)
- **Direct Link**: [Hetzner Console](https://console.hetzner.com/refer?pk_campaign=referral-invite&pk_medium=referral-program&pk_source=reflink&pk_content=VBVO47VycYLt)

---

<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by the Coolify Community
</p>
